Update contributing.md with steps to contributing (#226)
linux-system-roles/network: contributing.md

# Contributing to the Network Linux System Role

## Where to start

- **Bugs and needed implementations** are listed on [Github
  Issues](https://github.com/linux-system-roles/network/issus). Issues labeled

> with [**help wanted**](https://github.com/linux-system-roles/network/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22help+wanted%22) are likely to be suitable for new contributors!

Reviewer: This line seems to be longer than 88 characters.

Author: Yes! The problem is that the link gets altered and stops working when I break it in two lines

- **Code** is managed on
  [Github](https://github.com/linux-system-roles/network), using [Pull
Requests](https://help.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/about-pull-requests).

> - The code is currently **compatible with Python 2.6, 2.7, 3.6, 3.7 and 3.8**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The code needs to be **compatible with Python 2.6, 2.7, 3.6, 3.7 and 3.8**.
```

and keep your branch up-to-date with the upstream using ```git pull --rebase upstream
master```

- Try to make a commit per issue.

- If you are asked to make changes to your PR, don't panic! Many times it is enough to
  amend your previous commit adding the new content to it (`git commit --amend`). Be
sure to pull the latest upstream changes after that, and use `git push
--force-with-lease` to re-upload your commit with the changes!  Another way of doing
changes to a PR is by [squashing
commits](https://help.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/about-pull-request-merges#squash-and-merge-your-pull-request-commits).

- There are times when someone has made changes on a file you were modifying while you
  were making changes to your unfinished commit. At times like this, you need to make a
[**rebase**](https://help.github.com/en/github/using-git/about-git-rebase) with
conflicts. On the rebase you have to compare what the other person added to what you
added, and merge both file versions into one that combines it all.

- If you have any doubt, do not hesitate to ask! You can join IRC channel \#systemroles
  on freenode, or ask on the PR/issue itself.

> ### Naming things

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Naming Ansible Items
```

* All YAML or Python files, variables, arguments, repositories, and other such names
  should follow standard Python naming conventions of being in

>   snake\_case\_naming\_schemes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  `snake_case_naming_schemes`.
```

  necessary. Systems support long identifier names, so use them to be descriptive

* All defaults and all arguments to a role should have a name that begins with the role
  name to help avoid collision with other names. Avoid names like `packages` in favor of
  a name like `foo_packages`. 

* Same argument applies for modules provided in the roles, they also need a `$ROLENAME_`
  prefix: `foo_module`. While they are usually implementation details and not intended
  for direct use in playbooks, the unfortunate fact is that importing a role makes them
  available to the rest of the playbook and therefore creates opportunities for name
  collisions.

* Moreover, internal variables (those that are not expected to be set by users) are to
  be prefixed by two underscores: `__foo_variable`. This includes variables set by
  set_fact and register, because they persist in the namespace after the role has
  finished!

* Do not use special characters other than underscore in variable names, even if
  YAML/JSON allow them. (Using such variables in Jinja2 or Python would be then very
  confusing and probably not functional.)

> *Further explanation on this matter on these these 
> [meta standards](https://github.com/oasis-roles/meta_standards#naming-things).*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Find more explanation on this matter in the
[meta standards](https://github.com/oasis-roles/meta_standards#naming-things).*
```

# Contributing to the Network Linux System Role

## Where to start

- **Bugs and needed implementations** are listed on [Github

>   Issues](https://github.com/linux-system-roles/network/issues).  Issues labeled with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Issues](https://github.com/linux-system-roles/network/issues). Issues labeled with
```

Author: Fixed, thanks!

[**help
wanted**](https://github.com/linux-system-roles/network/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22help+wanted%22)
are likely to be suitable for new contributors!

- **Code** is managed on
  [Github](https://github.com/linux-system-roles/network), using [Pull
Requests](https://help.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/about-pull-requests).

- The code needs to be **compatible with Python 2.6, 2.7, 3.6, 3.7 and 3.8**.

## Code structure

The repository is structured as follows:

- `./defaults/` - Contains the default role configuration.

- `./examples/` - Contains YAML examples for different configurations.

> - `./library/network_connections.py` - Contains the main script. It controls the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `./library/network_connections.py` - Contains the internal Ansible module, which is the main script. It controls the
```

Author: Fixed!

  communication between the role and Ansible, imports the YAML configuration and applies

>   the changes to the provider (i.e. Network Manager, initscripts).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  the changes to the provider (i.e. NetworkManager, initscripts).
```

Author: Fixed!

- `./meta/` - Metadata of the project.

- `./module_utils/network_lsr/` - Contains other files that are useful for the network

>   role (i.e. the YAML argument validator)

Author: Thanks, fixed it!

- There are times when someone has made changes on a file you were modifying while you
  were making changes to your unfinished commit. At times like this, you need to make a
[**rebase**](https://help.github.com/en/github/using-git/about-git-rebase) with
conflicts. On the rebase you have to compare what the other person added to what you
added, and merge both file versions into one that combines it all.

- If you have any doubt, do not hesitate to ask! You can join IRC channel \#systemroles
  on freenode, or ask on the PR/issue itself.

### Naming Ansible Items

* All YAML or Python files, variables, arguments, repositories, and other such names
  should follow standard Python naming conventions of being in
  `snake_case_naming_schemes`.

* Names should be mnemonic and descriptive and not strive to shorten more than
  necessary. Systems support long identifier names, so use them to be descriptive

* All defaults and all arguments to a role should have a name that begins with the role
  name to help avoid collision with other names. Avoid names like `packages` in favor of

>   a name like `foo_packages`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  a name like `network_packages`. 
```

Since this is for the network role, we can use a specific example.

Author: Fixed this too

* Same argument applies for modules provided in the roles, they also need a `$ROLENAME_`

>   prefix: `foo_module`. While they are usually implementation details and not intended

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  prefix: `network_module`. While they are usually implementation details and not intended
```

Author: Fixed this

  for direct use in playbooks, the unfortunate fact is that importing a role makes them
  available to the rest of the playbook and therefore creates opportunities for name
  collisions.

* Moreover, internal variables (those that are not expected to be set by users) are to

>   be prefixed by two underscores: `__foo_variable`. This includes variables set by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  be prefixed by two underscores: `__network_variable`. This includes variables set by
```

Author: Fixed!

> # Contributing to Network @ Linux System Roles

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Contributing to the Network Linux System Role
```

Author: I wasn't sure if I could write it like the second one, thanks!

## Where to start
- **Bugs and needed implementations** are listed on [Github
  Issues](https://github.com/linux-system-roles/network/issus). Issues labeled

> with **help wanted** are likely to be suitable for new contributors!

Reviewer: Please link `help wanted` to the query:
https://github.com/linux-system-roles/network/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22help+wanted%22

Author: Done, thanks!

- **Code** is managed on
  [Github](https://github.com/linux-system-roles/network), using [Pull
Requests](https://help.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/about-pull-requests).

## How to contribute

1. Make a
   [fork](https://help.github.com/en/github/getting-started-with-github/fork-a-repo)
of this repository.

2. Create a new git branch on your local fork (the name is not relevant) and
   make the changes you need to complete an issue.

3. Do not forget to run unit and integration tests before pushing any changes!
  

>   - This project uses [tox](https://tox.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) to run unit

Reviewer: Please also mention that `tox` without any arguments will run all tests (except for the molecule tests, as they need docker).

Author: Ok, fixed!

    tests. You can try it with `tox -e py36` in case you want to try it using
    Python 3.6.

  - Format the code using [Python black](https://black.readthedocs.io/en/stable/)

  - Check the YML files are correctly formatted using `tox -e yamllint`.

  - Integration tests are executed as

>    [ansible-playbooks](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/user_guide/playbooks.html).

Reviewer: It would be great to add an example using the standard test roles qemu inventory script.

Author: I added the link to the VM too. This is a really nice idea, thanks!

3. Once the work is ready and commited, push the branch to your remote fork and
   click on "new Pull Request" on Github.

4. All set! Now wait for the continuous integration to pass and go over your
   commit if there are any errors. If there is no problem with your

>    contribution, the mantainer will merge it to the main project.

Reviewer: Most new contributors seem to struggle with how to rebase or squash commits after they were asked to do some changes. Would be great to mention this, too.

Author: That's true. Added the commit amend and commit sign too. Thanks!

### Some tips

- Make sure your fork and branch are up-to-date with the main project.
- Try to make a commit per issue.
- If you have any doubt, do not hesitate to ask! You can join IRC channel

>   #systemroles on FreeNode, or ask on the PR/issue itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  #systemroles on freenode, or ask on the PR/issue itself.
```

Author: fixed!

- **Code** is managed on
  [Github](https://github.com/linux-system-roles/network), using [Pull
Requests](https://help.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/about-pull-requests).

## How to contribute

1. Make a
   [fork](https://help.github.com/en/github/getting-started-with-github/fork-a-repo)
of this repository.

2. Create a new git branch on your local fork (the name is not relevant) and
   make the changes you need to complete an issue.

3. Do not forget to run unit and integration tests before pushing any changes!
  
  - This project uses [tox](https://tox.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) to run unit
    tests. You can try it with `tox -e py36` in case you want to try it using
    Python 3.6, or just `tox` if you want to run all the tests.

  - Format the code using [Python black](https://black.readthedocs.io/en/stable/)

  - Check the YML files are correctly formatted using `tox -e yamllint`.

  - Integration tests are executed as
    [ansible-playbooks](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/user_guide/playbooks.html).

> To run them you can use this [default CentOS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run them you can use a cloud image like the [CentOS 8.1
```

VM](https://cloud.centos.org/centos/8/x86_64/images/CentOS-8-GenericCloud-8.1.1911-20200113.3.x86_64.qcow2)
and execute the command (note that the last path is the one of the test you
want to run):
  
``TEST_SUBJECTS=CentOS-8-GenericCloud-8.1.1911-20200113.3.x86_64.qcow2
ansible-playbook -v -i /usr/share/ansible/inventory/standard-inventory-qcow2

> tests/test_default.yml``

Reviewer: This should probably also mention that the inventory script is part of the standard-test-roles-inventory-qemu package.

4. Once the work is ready and commited, push the branch to your remote fork and
   click on "new Pull Request" on Github.
5. All set! Now wait for the continuous integration to pass and go over your
   commit if there are any errors. If there is no problem with your
   contribution, the mantainer will merge it to the main project.

### Some important tips

- Make sure your fork and branch are up-to-date with the main project.
- Try to make a commit per issue.
- If you are asked to make changes to your PR, don't panic! Many times it is
  enough to amend your previous commit adding the new content to it (`git
commit --amend`). Be sure to pull the latest upstream changes after that, and

> use `git push --force` to re-upload your commit with the changes! Another way

Reviewer: ```suggestion
use `git push --force-with-lease` to re-upload your commit with the changes! Another way
```

of doing changes to a PR is by [squashing
commits](https://help.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/about-pull-request-merges#squash-and-merge-your-pull-request-commits).
- There are times when someone has made changes on a file you were modifying
  while you were making changes to your unfinished commit. At times like this,
you need to make a
[**rebase**](https://help.github.com/en/github/using-git/about-git-rebase).  On

> the rebase you will compare what the other person added and what you added anf

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the rebase you will compare what the other person added and what you added and
```

> will fusion both file versions into one that combines it all.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
will merge both file versions into one that combines it all.
```

how to write a good commit message).
This content is licensed under [CC-BY-SA](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/).

## How to reach us

> The mailing list for developers : systemroles@lists.fedorahosted.org

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The mailing list for developers: systemroles@lists.fedorahosted.org
```

Author: Fixed!

> [Subscribe to the mailing list here](https://lists.fedorahosted.org/admin/lists/systemroles.lists.fedorahosted.org/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Subscribe to the mailing list](https://lists.fedorahosted.org/admin/lists/systemroles.lists.fedorahosted.org/)
```

Author: fixed

[Archive of the mailing list](https://lists.fedorahosted.org/archives/list/systemroles@lists.fedorahosted.org/)

> If you are using IRC, join the `#systemroles` IRC channel on freenode

Reviewer: Please add a link to freenode, maybe https://freenode.net/kb/answer/chat

Author: I added this, thanks

 Resolves: #123
 See also: #456, #789

Do not forget to sign your commit! Use `git commit -s`

```

This is taken from [chris beams git commit](https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/).
You may want to read this for a more detailed explanation (and links to other posts on
how to write a good commit message).
This content is licensed under [CC-BY-SA](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/).

> ###Continuous integration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Continuous integration
```

> The [continuous integration](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Continuous_integration) (CI) contains a set of automated tests that are triggered on a remote server. Some of them are immediately triggered when pushing new content to a PR (i.e. the tests hosted on TravisCI) while other need to be triggered by contributors of the project. This second set of tests can be manually triggered. To trigger them, write a command as a PR comment. The available commands are:

Reviewer: Please wrap the lines at 88 characters.

Also the commands only work for members of the repository. By writing `contributors of the project` it sounds like everyone could do this since everyone can contribute.
